# tema1

Tema 1 APD - Paduretu David-Pavel 332CC
The Marching Squares algorithm, when implemented in parallel, greatly enhances performance by utilizing multi-threading capabilities. By splitting tasks across multiple threads, the algorithm can efficiently handle large images and produce contours simultaneously. This project focuses on parallelizing the Marching Squares algorithm using Pthreads in C/C++. The Marching Squares algorithm is commonly employed for contouring images and finds applications in diverse fields like topographic or thermal mapping.
I parallelized the rescale_image function within the body of the given function skeleton. I modified the function's arguments and type, added long id (thread ID) and int P (total number of threads). I did this to modify the loops to use the start and end formulas from the laboratory to parallelize. I used the same approach for sample_grid and march, but these were implemented locally within the thread_func function.

In thread_func, I initially check if image rescaling is required or not. In the body of each if statement, I perform the sample_grid and march algorithms each time, calculating the start and end for each loop. We do this to divide into intervals for each thread.

For threads, I created a structure that contains information independent of the thread but also specific to each thread (id), P total number of threads. All threads receive the same image, contour_map, step_x, step_y, and grid. I also included the scaled_image field. We use it to save if the image needs to be scaled, and we work with scaled image in the sample and march steps. In the end, we check the initial dimensions of the image and if rescaling is needed, we write to the output field of the image because the algorithm was applied to it. If not, we write to scaled_image.
